- To best understand a knowledge stream , think about a book.  A book is a very rudimentary form of knowledge stream. Assuming it is a great book written by your favorite author, it can change your mind.  Your mind seeks to live hours , and sometimes days and months in a great book. [[mahaBharata]] is an example of knowledge stream. Also called [[epicGraph]] #spotLight
- When we moved from hard text to digital format, we made a big mistake. Well , it is not a mistake , it is just that technology was not there - what we did ?
	- We simply converted most of the [[books]] in digital format. Bits and bytes. Most of the times , scanned images or pdfs. These digital copies - as on [[internet archives]] or on [[gutenberg project]] , are neither well presented , nor well searchable . And NOT at all interact-able. From interact, I mean , you can't add notes , add pages - basically you can't fork a book to build something atop.
	- So what we did - we started [[wikipedia]]. The idea was, crowd source texting of all the information. It is interact-able wiki but the problem is we don't have books there , we just have book reviews or references. Or new articles which are NOT written by great writers. In essence you get very dry information on wikipedia. And also , ordinary bias creeps in.
	- The question is can I take a book , read it through over a period of time, add my pages , notes , may be fork it to build a new version ? In a way , this revised version represents my knowledge of the book, I forked.
	- You need not start from a great book. But you must bring in elements of good writing, structure and above all, a some desirable knowledge. And you must allow others to fork it in an easy way.
	- This is what I call knowledge stream
- A distributed graph, such as [[logseq]] is a great tool for sharing a knowledge stream.
- The knowledge stream that you offer to entice other conscious agents to invite into your [[mindGraph]] is called [[entryStream]]
	- Imagine, if simply all the physical locations and characters of every book in public domain are tagged as their own pages in a distributed [[logseq]], you will have a wikipedia of all the people and places.  This logseq graph based wikipedia is built bottom up. Whereas the wikipedia that we have now , is mostly people and places built top down. Let us call this [[graphPedia]]
	- New books, written in digital realm, may be written directly as knowledge streams.
	- Finished knowledge streams should be free, because they are just information. The real knowledge is in the [[versionHistory]] . That should come at a cost.
	-
