- Birth of `Krishna` .The idea of compassion leads to `Maharish Parasara` start living a tolerant life. It opens up avenues for the Ausras to start organizing. `Shantanu` meets `Satyawati`. `Bheeshma Pratizna`.
	- Explore Devki, Vasudev connection , Did Parasara professed the death of `Kansa` at the hands of Devki's eighth son.
	- Kansa wanted to tax the Ashrama.  Maharishi moved to the island with congregation to the island.
		- Safety
		- Tax Savings
		- The palm trees (only available in the island) - for writing apparatus
			- The current scribing was on cloth with color of Henna. Each page used to stand as tall as a human. It was a replication of scribing on the walls of the caves. `Maharishi` wanted to miniatures it to bring the cost down. Instead if chiseling or painting Henna with hands, why not pick up a small stick, dip into a Henna paint on a palm tree and smoke heat it to accelerate Henna drying. Turned out it was a big huge step forward. Plam leaves were cheap. Henna was equally cheap because Maharishi had plans to cultivate Henna on the isand. Or it was already there.
			- The cost of a cloth scripture - the book looked like a mainframe computer - was almost a gold coin. One penny per page for hundred pages worth of scripture. That cost came down to silver with smoke dried palm leaves. An order of magnitude cost saving while increasing the efficiency by an order of magnitude.
	- `Maharishi` did move to the island, but he made sure, Vasudev , the good guy , had a reason to live. Kansa having put his father in law in jail , had a 24 by 7 close guard on Vasudev and Devki. He was planning to kill Vasudev for good. Maharishi spread the information that Devki's eighth son will kill Kansa. He had to keep Vasudev alive and Devki too. He didnt even wanted to take a chance on their reincarnation because marriage was pronounced to for seven lives. So he kept Devki and Vasudev in close watch and took away first seven children and sent them Parashara's Ashrama.  A good reason for him to visit the Ashrama on weekly basis. And for show off to the world, he was taking good care of his nieces.
	- How did Maharishi plot exit of Krishna and requested `Vishnu` to incarnate. To speak for himself what `Karm Yoga` is - because actions can't just be talked through unless they are actually enacted.
- At the same time `Ugrasen` too is aging and there starts a daily battle of control with son. `Kansa` starts taking arbitrary decisions. Incarnation of `Vishnu` into supreme intelligence because future is likely need it soon. The idea of most involved yet uninvolved. Or fully one with the knowledge. Embodiment of entire knowledge.
- `Ved Vyasa` sees it as compassion losing to evil. How to restore faith in the very writer of `Vedas`.
- `Krishnas` ideological battle. To be compassionate of not to be. Is fitness cruelty of objectivity or is it compassion with trust in divine response? Or is it something else ? What is `Karm Yoga` ? Are both `Arjuna` and `Vyasa` not `Karm Yogi` ? How to show them unless the situation arises in real world ? Truth must happen in real.
- `Krishna` already has tools of astrology to set up an experiment with help from `Satyavati`
	- A test between good and evil. Standard bollywood plot. A battle - a toss - a way to summon the forces of nature to take a call.
	- Probability play or superior intelligence ?
- What would `Krsna` do ?  Simply show what is `Karm Yoga` through his life
	- What is righteous
	- What is `Karma`
	- Why win or loss are secondary - what is the third vantage?
	- Divya drishti to both `Arjuna` and `Vyasa` - the nyaan yogi and the naad yogi - to show them both the meaning of `Karm Yoga`
	- Both `Nyaan` and `Naad Yoga` are accomplished only by `Karm Yoga` - rather `Nishkaam Karm Yoga`
	- `Bhakti` only in own soul.
	- `Atma` is the knowledge
	- The writer v/s an actor.  `Arjuna` is acting the quest of `Vyasa`. A writer is living an actor for the ultimate quest. VyasaOvaach is arjunUvaach.
- Fixes
	- Explain why Matsya had bad smell - done
	- Explain debate vs compassion. - done
	- If you do have a point of view, you should write so that others could read if and when they want to.  And you should spend interaction time listening to others, so that you could refine your written PoV in light of new feedback.  In a way, ability to write, makes you a better listener.
	- Not only this, when you write, you get the ability to reflect on your own PoV. That in itself is means to viewing your own self.  This allows you have your own feedback on you.
- Ideas
	- Connected computers can do lot more than just 'internet'. A standalone computer does even more than what it contributes back to the network. Think of a standalone touring-complete computer as  `Vishnu` . It has all the knowledge built into it, but it uses only a miniscule fraction of the knowledge to do what the environment wants it do — for example, you may want to do a spreadsheet on it. Someone else might want to write code or read an article. Only a tiny part of entire knowledge packed into the computer is ever used — millions of lines of code in just the operating system. Even more in the design of the hardware. What we want to explore with this machine, is driven by the environment. The environment is built by the connections — the network — the knowledge graph. We take inspirations from the environment and contribute back into the network. In a way  `Bramh`  originates from  `Vishnu`  and  `Vishnu`  is the manifestation of  `Bramh` . All the knowledge, put together creates a conscious living being - a biological expression, and the network of conscious nodes holds the knowledge to self manifest. Biological nodes may be in the shape of animals or trees or humans just the way computers could be a windows PC or a Mac or even a cell phone. As the knowledge grows [exponentially], it must be kept current. In fact, the choice of moving to new, or sticking with the old, is the birth of duality. In most growing networks, older nodes may not be able to withstand the weight of ever increasing expanse of knowledge. For example you can't run Instagram on an [older] blackberry. New nodes must be added and older must perish. New connections must be formed and older must be destroyed. This self cleansing attribute is known as  `Siva` . Together they —  `Vishnu` ,  `Bramh`  and  `Siva` , represent this entire continuum. A rather pure computing analogy would be to think of  `Bramh`  as the "runtime" for an application,  `Vishnu`  is the ability of runtime to instantiate and hold specific values in variables, while  `Siva`  is the automated garbage collection process to stop memory leakage. It takes away resources from the variables when they are not needed anymore. From physics standpoint,  `Bramh`  is the sum total of energy in all the constituents of a system,  `Vishnu`  is the potency that turns energy into physical things, as and when the conditions support and need arises, and  `Siva`  is the process that takes the energy back from physical manifestation and throws it into  `Bramh` , as soon as the manifestations outlive their utility. The key thing to note is this approach provides a great definition of "energy". Energy can't exist without physical manifestations. Even the vacuum has some tiny particles to hold miniscule amount of energy because notion of energy is in the network of particles. A tiny part of energy manifested into physical particles (quarks), and rest in the forces between those particles. If there is no particle, energy can't exist on its own. In other words, manifestation and destruction is a continuous process. In  `Vaidik`  tradition, This continuum is called God. God is not a specific person, but every network of conscious nodes, have embedded in them, the three fundamental processes — of manifestation, of connection and of self deprecation.