- I think #rayDalio has a great book in terms of mega trends of world order - Dutch followed by Brits followed by US. But he is making a mistake in predicting China as the next in order.
- No doubt China is number 2 in GDP now, but the fact is world is now segregating around a new geo-political regimen - Internet open economies Vs internet closed economies. The nations don't really matter anymore because globalization is real no matter how much the  politicians vested in the national supremacy may try to hold it back.
- On the other side are multinational businesses , that are vested in open internet. Be it a Chinese business or be it a US business, they all want simpler currency, same tax policy and global rules of finance.  Today vested businesses own more power than the vested politicians and businesses are sick and tired of anti globalization war of politicians. Ultimately businesses are fast finding a new open currency that works all over the open internet - cryptocurrencies.
- The new reserve currency of open internet based economies is #bitCoin and new usage currency is going be many stable coins based in #eth
- My key observation even from the descriptions of Mr Dalio is that the runner up never becomes leader.
	- France was running up to Dutch but the leadership went to Brits
	- Germany was the runner up to Brits but the leadership went to the US
	- Now China is a runner up to US but the leadership (reserve currency) will not be Yuan. Yuan will be gently nudged aside by a combination of stable coins as RBDCs proxy and bitcoin as the underlying reserve currency.
- Another key observation is new currency must solve a real problem. For example USD solved a major problem of transportability of Gold. It also offered a much better governance model run by economists , rather than miners. #cryptography offers a even better decentralized model of money. This technical superiority will automatically find the use cases that will not be possible with fiat currencies.
- Also Dalio missed the point that Dutch or Brits never became the reserve currency - it was always Gold. Only USD could topple gold as reserve currency.  Shifting from USD to Yuan is no good reason whereas shifting to crypto from USD is a huge business benefit.