- Credit’ was given to the early inventors as a group. Instead of mentioning every individual name, they were tagged to a group. One distinct group for a specific area of exploration, to express gratitude. For example, all those who contributed in water works, irrigation, and agriculture were represented by a single entity  `Indra` . All those who invented fire and various ways to control it — who contributed from mining to metallurgy; were named  `Agni` . Those who tamed the winds, to build the early sail boats were called  `Varuna` . These group entities, represented by respective common name, were called ‘deities’. They were worshipped for the blessings they bestowed on humanity and thus by extension on all the species.
- Assigning a common name to a group is common even today. Instead of counting thousands of hardware and software experts, we simply say "Apple" makes iPhone. The phenomenon goes beyond technology or business. We normally say  `Mahatma Gandhi`  got India freedom. What we actually mean by this generalization is thousands of freedom fighters who worked with  `Mahatma`  got India freedom. Instead of counting the names of thousands of activists who worked in "civil rights movement", we simply use the name of Dr King to express our gratitude.
- #+BEGIN_QUOTE
  In a way, deities represent the beautiful complexity of our civilization, above the backdrop of three core processes - self manifestation of knowledge into conscious beings of progressively higher complexity (Darwinian Evolution) represented by (Vishnu), a vast network of manifested concious entities to hold the knowledge (Bramh) and finally the automated system cleansing to sustain evolutionary expanse of knowledge (Siva). The core processes are scale-invariant. They exist unchanged from sub-atomic particles to the galactic depths of cosmos. But the complexity of our civilization exists only at human scales, thanks to the intelligent discoveries of groups of inventors, represented separately by respective deities.
  
  In other words, as per Vaidik belief system, ‘knowledge’ is always complete and omnipresent, represented by collective eternal existence of Vishnu, Bramh and Siva; the evolution and expansion of bioverse is there to only decrypt this knowledge facilitated by scientific endeavours, represented by deities. The notion of awakening (or the light) is being in state of fully decrypted ‘knowledge’; and that of sleep (or the darkness), is being completely oblivious. The Vaidik invocation is Tamso Mam Jyotir Gamay means — take me from my existing darkness to the light! In essence Vaidik way of life is same as the path of scientific discovery of our time. There is no friction whatsoever.
  #+END_QUOTE