- `Krishna Dvaipayana`  was brought to life for a purpose. He was destined to compile and rearrange thousands of sacred insights, new and old, from sages ( `Rishies` ) and super sages ( `Maharishies` ). He crystallized, then existing, entire wisdom into four foundational volumes — the  `Vedas` . For this legendary work, he was conferred the most coveted title in literature —  [[Dwaipayana]]  (the chief editor of Vedas). This work, in itself, was virtuous enough to dedicate a life-time; however, his real goal was even bigger! The immensity of his purpose, rightfully so, made him one of the [[immortal-eights]]
- #+BEGIN_TIP
  `Krishna's`  literary work was no accident. He came from a lineage of scholarly sages. His father  Maharishi [[Parāśara]]  spoke titles such as  `Brihat Parāśara Hora`  — foundational work on Astrology;  `Krishi Parāśara`  — his insights on Agriculture;  `Vrkayurveda`  — the first book on botany, and  `Vishnu Purana`  — the manifestative potency of the knowledge. His grand father  `Sakti Muni` , was the first to understand  `Karm Yoga`  . And his great grand father  [[Vaśiṣṭha]]  was titled  [[Bramh-rishi]]  (The keeper of eternal knowledge). It feels like  `Krishna's`  lineage predetermined his destiny — as if someone planned a multi-generational project to bring  `Vedas`  to written word.
  #+END_TIP
- Not only did  `Krishna`  edit the four Vedas, he also scribed eighteen  `Puranas`  and wrote the master piece  `Jaya`  (victory) — the story of Lord Sri  [[Krsna]] and  `Arjuna` . It was later expanded into a mega-epic,  [[Maha-Bharata]] , his familial memoir - spanning his own and next two generations.  `Mahabharata` , with around 1.8 million words, is the longest written poetic collection ever, in any language, old or new. To put it in perspective, it is about ten times the size of Iliad and Odyssey combined. More than the size, the quality of poetry is such that it inspired  `Kalidasa`  (play-wright of `Mudra Rakshsa`  and  `Abhijnyaan Shakuntalam` ), commonly known as Shakespeare of Sanskrit. In fact,  `Shakuntalam`  is a rewrite of the plot first conceived by  `Krishna`  in  `Mahabharata` . In addition to poetic excellence,  `Mahabharata`  defined a new way of life — action orientation ( `Karm Yoga` ). The epic forms the cultural basis of one of the oldest civilization. It holds within it, center-folded, the gist of four Vedas —  `Bhagvat Gita`  — the first written source of the idea of  `Karma`  without desires.
-
-
-
-