- In 1997 I was doing a sales job in a Larsen & Toubro - commonly called LnT in India. It is quite a conglomerate but not as well known outside India as TCS or InfoSys.  We had set up a small office in Ahmedabad - the capital of Gujarat.  Being a techie, I was given an additional job - connect this new office to our regional network on email.
- Our regional office used a popular [[groupWare]]  called groupWise for email. Yes  , email was the definition of group work back then. Btw we haven't made much progress in this space cuz even now 90% or corporates run on email.  10 % use Slack or Teams but even they fall back on email the moment they need to send something to a client or a vendor.  Email is still alive and it will continue for foreseeable future.
- Anyways , long story short, I spoke with our regional office in Pune, and they said it will cost us almost 500,000 rupees to set up a groupwise server (netware) and get say fifty licenses. That is after we ensure there was connectivity (a dish at the top of our building) or a dial up modem with a dedicated line.
- Luckily we un had bought IBM servers (netfinity) to run our home grown financial application called CISSMOSS that we replaced with #SAP two years later..but that is a separate conversations and kinda how I got into SAP
- The cool thing was , IBM had bundled fifty user licenses of Lotus Notes - there emailing solution with the server -- FREE. .. yes absolutely free ..
- So here I - a civil engineer started thinking. - what if I install Lotus Notes server and add my fifty user to this email server, will I be able to interoperate with rest of the world and particularly my regional office (and thus rest of the company) cuz they were using Groupwise .. You might laugh at this question today ..because every one knows that email is interoperable ..bnut trust me - back then it was a big question ..
- So I made some phone call and turned out another L&T unit was doing exactly what I was hoping to accomplish ..
- Goes without saying that I hired the engineer from L&T Chiyoda ( the other group that was doing this Lotus nOtes stuff) and had him configure my server , modem and I though I just won the world .. Not yet
- The real battle started getting the people to start using fucking email.
- My boss (name withheld cuz I love the guy :-) literally had his secretary print the email for him .. dictate the reply ..and then she used to type it on a computer ..run the drafts with him and finally pushed the send button ..
- Struggle with a telephone modem was more than setting up a [[helium5G]] router today ..
- The stuff I did in 1997 -98  for email , is happening now for 5g connectivity ..and it is all running on a blockchain..
- Did that convince you that crypto has found a killer app ..and we didn't even talk about the #NFT yet ..
- ---
- eMail is [[asynchronous]] and [[distributed]] . Well you may say that it has already been centralized like the gmail or icloud mail but there are still many many providers. And the amazing thing is , even [[gmail]] works with [[iCloud]] email. Even [[Apple]] couldn't wall garden it.
- This is very different from social media platforms. For example if you restrict yourself into [[instagram]] or [[tickTok]] , how do you send connect insta to tikTok ? This real problem is being solved by #aave through their open social graph protocol called #lens
- Even bigger problem is , what if Insta is shut down in your country ? Or [[Meta]] - the company decides to block you out ? You can take all your emails with you and easily set up your own [[mail-server]] ,  can you set up your own [[facebook]] server ?
- Similarly, once upon a time , the [[internet]] was totally decentralized. It is been increasingly centralized now by the likes of [[google]] . How do you make it [[decentralized]] again ? Wanna know ?