- # ग़ज़ल की रवायत
- Gazal is a style of Urdu poetry. Two liners verses are called a `Sher`. There are few  rules in terms mandatory rhyming requirements — for example Kayiaa and Radeef must rhyme but the important thing is each `sher` is a standalone thought. This is unlike [[Nazm]]  that has only one abstraction.  In a way each verse of a Gazal is an independent tweet size thought. This flexibility makes it a potent form of expression. [[Mirza Galib]] is one of the most popular Gazal Poets.
- I wrote below referenced Gazal to show case rhyming techniques.  The last word of each couplet (Sher) is called Radeef . With that rule the word नहीं, is Radeef in this gazal. But many times a group of small words may be seen as Radeef.  For example, in this Gazal , last three words ``है कि नहीं`` , together represent Radif.
- {{embed ((6387ec61-1473-4249-9bc3-6da4511ecddb))}}
- The second last word of the couplet — in this case the words `जलन ` , `चुभन ` etc are called Kafia.  So in this particular gazal , the Radeef is mere repetition of same set of words whereas Kafia is rhyming.
- The only exception is the first sher of Gazal. This is where Kafiya and Radeef must match in both the lines of a couplet. Notice the first sher of the gazal below and see the difference in first line verses other couplets.  This is probably the reason, first couplet of gazal is also something that sets up the mood — called Moju.
- In the last couplet, poets (optionally) use their pen-name (takhallus) though it suits only famous poets (shayars) whose pen-name is as popular as their poetry. Mirza Galib's pen name was `Asad`. Iqbal used the same as pen-name. Using a pen-name shows the confidence and is a symbol that poetry has reached a specific level.
- With in this simple framework , Gazal may express complex thoughts. The beauty if Gazal is in stating the obvious in "not so obvious" ways. Gazal is considered the ultimate form of word craft. It doesn't shy away from using complex words. In fact many complex words are created to express the emotion of Gazal. The best way to understand the usage of Urdu words is to see them used in Gazals and to notice the subtle variations.
- It is not  uncommon to leave some words out while forming a sher, and then capture the thought in preceding couplets or to totally leave it to the audience for their imagination.
- Gazals are normally recited in a specific form very indicative of the poet,  though Galib always stuck a simple readout. #Recital