- Logseq is a  personal knowledge management tool. It is simply the upside down view of what we have been doing to-date. In the bygone world, writer was expected to create a folder structure , a hierarchy of thoughts. The problem was many ideas belonged to many articles in different folders. Not only this, remembering the folder structure was a pain in itself. If you went on a vacation, by the time you came back , you forgot where the hell are buried your most precious ideas.
- The good news is we now have [[graphDatabases]] that can do this. And thankfully we have Logseq to turn [[blocks]] of text into a graph.
- Writing is the reflection of our brains. Before we start writing things for the public consumption , we need to harvest our thoughts . That is where Logseq fits in. It is a way to organize your research, todos, fleeting thoughts into a graph that you can use anytime you want to expand on a certain topic. May be years later.
- It takes the burden of managing the  folders, pages and the rigor of capturing , to allow us build a garden of our mind. I call it a [[mindGraph]]
- Don't think  you should start brain harvesting when  you wanna become a writer. In fact the chances of your becoming a good writer are dependent on how organized you are at harvesting your own brain.
- Logseq converts the art of writing from a [[desire]] to a [[Karma]].
- Google came up with desktop search. They thought that you will probably search your own work the way you do the internet. It just didn't work. Because you don't even remember that you had approached the same topic in a totally different context.
- There are many ways to publish logseq to the web. Some of them use [[github]] actions and others try to publish the content in "hugo" format.  I am doing it manually, without any gh actions or tools.  Here are my [[simpleSteps]] ..