title:: macroPolitics
cryptonicShift:: chapter-one

- [[geoPolitical]] situation has split the world in two major camps. On one side we have the camp led by China and Russia that is mostly manufacturing world. I don't want to divide the world into "developing and developed world because by definition this criterion is derogatory.  On the other side we have a world which is led by consumption. This consumptive world also has the designers who are great in designing the products for more consumption.
	- The manufacturing world comprises developed nations such as China , Russia and Middle East that manufacture using the cheap resources they have. For example China harnesses the cheap labor whereas Russia and middle East harness the cheap resources of carbon based energy - oil.
	- The Consumption oriented world are the developed nations that consume bulk of the manufactured goods from inland or by imports.  It takes proximity to  understand what consumers need. Thus most of the top software and hardware design companies are in this world - be it Google or Apple or Meta. When I say consumption , it is not consumption of physical goods only. It is consumption of information goods too - be it apps, games or media.
	- Generally there was an equilibrium when consumption led countries enjoyed good relations with the manufacturers. Manufacturers saw the opportunity to tap into huge demand and consumers saw an opportunity into huge cheap labor , energy and commodities.  It was an opportunity for the manufacturers get get out of poverty while consumers could enjoy ever cheaper goods and services. Basically no inflation as the cost were falling. What ever inflation was there , was on account of fiscal and monetary blunders.
	- The general trend  for the manufacturers to buy into bonds and treasuries issued by the consumers because they saw these currencies safe heavens. They didn't have full understanding of the economic systems and more importantly they lacked confidence. In other words they were turning into developed countries from the [[underdeveloped]] world.
	- Two things happened in parallel in last one decade.
		- First the consumers developed automation and alternative energy. Alternative energy was somewhat justifiable because of climate crisis. But how would you justify automation. It meant a clear blow to the manufacturers. Earlier only middle East and Russia were scared that there cash cow (oil) is going to get obsolete soon, with automation, even China felt the fear that its manufacturing dream was short lived.
		- The manufacturers, having moved into a developed economy, saw their own demand grow. They started producing designers to tap into their own markets. This means they need to invest in their own nations rather than simply saving the money in consumer treasuries.
		- The problem is , USD will crash if China and Russia and Middle East start pulling their money out.  The value of their money is locked into strength of USD.
		- Not only with drawls, if the US Fed print excessive amounts of dollars , the value of their holdings go down. A holder of dollar wants dollar to be stronger.
		- At the same time, they need an alternative where they may hold their money.  A gradual pull out from USD and a gradual ramp up into an alternative global currency where the value of their deposits increase over time rather than depreciating.
		- Enters #btc and stranger things started happening.