- `Matsyagandha`  was daughter of a poor fisherman who passed away when she turned eleven, not that anyone was counting. Her mother had died in labor of her birth. No one wanted to be with her for she was labeled bad omen. Poor girl knew only one way to live in this world — ferry people across  `Yamuna`  — the mighty river, by the abode ( `Ashrama` ) of  `Maharishi Parāśara` . Her only possession was her father's dilapidated boat. The cruelty of her fate — no one wanted to ride with her. Not only the boat was in bad shape, she herself had a pungent smell; thus the name  `Matsyagandha`  that literally meant one who smelled like fish ( `Matsya`  in Sanskrit, means fish, and  `Gandha`  means fragrance).
- No one had ever trained the poor girl how to ˝make-up˝ or present herself. Absolutely no training in hospitality. She used to get 'stuck and stranded' commuters when no other boat was around, normally early mornings or late evenings. And she hated it for she was scared of  `Yamuna`  in windy mornings as much as in the invisible dark nights. Many times she thought of letting her boat to the deep waters, but even death wouldn't come easy to her. No one in the village talked to her. She had no friends. No one would care to notice if she was lost from the face of Earth.
- The solitude of lone purposeless life made  `Matsyagandha`  spend most her time with herself, and her imagination. Back at her broken hut, she used to gaze the stars through the holes in her thatched roof. She had no formal education, yet, she honed curiosity of a writer and creativity of a poet, just by talking to herself and the waves of  `Yamuna`  — and the stars. And she didn't even know it. Her world had no bridge to the scriptures and none at all to the ongoing tussle between spoken word and the written text.