- humans are excellent in making long term predictions. Like we can all predict are going to die. In fact we know better. We know everyone is ultimately going to die. Okay - I know that is kinda dumb prediction because we have seen it from centuries. Everyone told us our ultimate fate and to them probably their parents and then their parents. But our parents have told us many more things - death was just one of them. Maybe we focus on death for some strange reason but there are whole lot many more things that we know. For example we know if we work hard, we will succeed. So success is easily predictable. If you carefully watch two humans or two human kids, you can easily tell who will succeed in long term. You can predict the weathers even fifty years from now - may be a bit bigger range because we are heating up the planet at faster rate but we can easily allowance for that. Scientists can predict how long earth will live - even Sun and far farther planets. Point is  - long term is easy. Problem really is the #present.
- Not only future , long term past is also fairly easy except for the extreme boundary conditions.
- The #present on the other hand is hard. We can't tell for sure what we will think an hour from now - Even half an hour. No - you cant predict what you will think the very next moment.
- The problem is organization - business, corporations, nations or even religions - want you to predict the present - the next moment , the next hour or the next day. Their planning memory goes to max a week.
- Oh you thought corporations are very good at long term planning ! But think about it.  The very meaning of organization is to plan the current moment.  Organizations are built to realize the dreams of the leader. The future of a visionary. The plan is to have you predict your next moment - the hardest thing to do - so that the future of the leader is realized. The idea is for you to sacrifice your future for the sake of one. The idea is you stop living the moment the way you are.  And stop you reach the future that you knew . The one you could predict (so easily) if you just lived your moment.  And turn all that energy to realize the future of the organizer.