title:: shutriDotCom

- long time ago - I was very keen on google apps.  Just for fun sake I registered this domain with google apps , just to check how the thing works. It is almost ten years now and over this period I learnt a lot about google's take on business apps.  It is a fascinating story - how google help build office 360.  And in doing so, they made internet the computer. Even forced Apple into iCloud.
- An even bigger inspiration, and probably the undercurrent, was to check how the web works. There were no .xyz or .eth domains back then ; .org might have been around but I had no idea. I didn't even know that .com stands for commercial use. Anyways , my intent was never commercial .. it was all fun and learn.
- My early attempts to build a google site to host as the landing page of shutri.com failed miserably. Google sites was a messed up product. It was more of an online version of Microsoft Powerpoint rather than being a website builder. I mean , you could sure use it to build an intranet page but it was pretty canned in what you could do. Eventually Google retired the legacy sites product and replaced it with "new sites" which unfortunately still pretty dated way to make a web page.
- So this led me to research what might I put on shutri.com ? Luckily I had a blogger blog that time.  I figured that blogger allows you to publish content to a custom domain ! .. Cool - for fun sake - I published my blog to shutri.com . It is my definition of fun :-)
- Few more years, and blogger started looking stale , so I moved my writer to new shiney tool called medium.
- Again, I figured that you can make a channel on medium. I made many ! and you can publish them to a custom domain. So one of my medium channel showed up on shutri.com.
- All along, it was just a test ground. I was never serious about shutri.com ..and am not even now ..its for fun sake!
- Few years , and medium messed up all the channels .. they got caught into pay wall thing and eventually I lost interest. I decided, I can't let the publishers ruin my website experience. The question was how do I build my own website , and how to host it !
- Meanwhile my interest cropped up in Linux. That led to discovery of git and github. Just to test my learnings, I built a homepage repository on github. The great thing I discovered building my home page , that was basically a Jekyll template, that I could host my page to a custom domain using [[githubPages]]
- It took me a while to understand full feature scope of git , github and gh pages - a publishing workflow that every writer should understand.
- Anyways - having shifted my blog to number of places - blogger , medium and then to my homepage built with Jekyll, I realized that blogging is really not for a serious writer. Oh by the way, I was getting serious about writing.  I considered number of options such as gitbooks , hugo but none felt like romantic enough. gitBooks felt more commercial - probably for technical writing stuff while hugo was another blogging platform like Jekyll.
- Meanwhile I shifted to the darkness - no ; I mean writing in a terminal. Only command line prompt on Linux. And I found couple of great tools - [[vim]] and [[tmux]] worth mentioning here.
- You see, I was turning into a text rabbit and what I found in this hole was markdown. Being able to write markdown in vim was like a dream writing tool set.
- Research on markdown led me to the [[mdbook]] , a tiny rust application that turns your random markdown files into a shiney book. That was great ..but quest never stops
- I figured out I can store all my markdowns in a git repo and publish the html generated by mdbook on github pages.
- So shutri.com became host of mdbook website . Meanwhile I figured out that my Google domain was hosted by go daddy. Little bit of tinkering and self learning , I figured out I can add subdoamins to my google apps account. So I started [a new book ArjunUvaach](gita.shutri.com) and [a collection of urdu/hindi poems](poems.shutri.com) ..both running on mdbook hosted through github pages
- Turned out mdbook was great if I had something in focus writing .. like the subdomains [gita.shutri.com](gita.shutri.com) but it wasn't really the landing page
- Meanwhile I was experimenting with newer tools for writing that support vim style key bindings . And I wanted to try out vsCode. The main reason was , I couldn't figure our LanguageTools plugin for vim. I mean it worked but it was clunky. And getting to some serious writing in English meat I needed serious grammar support. One meh solution was to start using google docs. But unfortunately google didn't support either vim style nor markdown. Surprisingly vsCode did both. Amazing to see [[microsoft]] supporting vim style and markdown. And it had a nice language tools plugin too.
- So typing in markdown in vim style keybindings on vsCode with grammar support from  language tool , became a crazy hot thing in my mind .. that is my definition of writer Nirvana :-)
- But the web front of shutri.com was still the mdbook. Underneath I shifted from vim/markdown to vscode.
- The fun went on for quite a while .. before I accidentally discovered [[Notion]] which led me to [[Logseq]]
	- #+BEGIN_QUOTE
	  Saw  a random article that linked to a tweet of Brian Armstrong that they are now ranking the politicians based on their support for the #Crypto
	  Clicked in the link to the Twitter. The table embedded in the tweet took me to an App. Later I figured out it was #Notion. It was a pretty cool app  to write. Very impressed.  Thought of giving it a shot. Downloaded the Mac App. 
	  Later that night , while watching the TV,  #Adi was working on his Mac. I asked which app it was. He said #Notion . And he said it was the best editing app he ever used and he does all his  work in #Notion
	  Got even more impressed with #Notion . But the only problem was it didn't support the #vim style keybindings. 
	  Googled if Notion supported the vim style that led me to a Reddit post. They said Notion doesn't support the vim keybindings but if that is a must have than try out #Obsedian or LogSeq
	  Next day .  I researched LogSeq. And was totally blown away with storing content in a Graph database.
	  #+END_QUOTE
- As you night have expected , the question that came to my mind , can I publish my knowledge graph being built on Logseq to shutri.com ??
- If you wanna find out how logseq is published to a web page like shutri.com check out my [[simpleSteps]]