- Seven months before  [[Parāśara]] 's birth  [[Bramh-rishi]] [[Vaśiṣṭha]]  — his grand father — woke up to a grotesque morning. His sprawling congregation [[Ashrama]] on the banks of river  `Yamuna` , sunk into deepest of grief. His son  [[Śakti Muni]]  — father of yet to be born  `Parāśara` , along with all the faculty and students, was killed by a tribal self-proclaimed king. Some religious accounts say  `Bramh-Rishi`  had one hundred sons taken that fateful morning. They probably mean  `Bramh-rishi`  treated all his followers, particularly the faculty members, like his own true-born.
- Only  `Bramh-rishi`  himself, and young wife of  `Śakti Muni`  —  `Adrushyanti` , survived the massacre.  `Adrushyanti`  was carrying yet to be born  `Parāśara`  — maybe two months into her pregnancy. The seat of knowledge, in India's foremost pilgrimage destination  `Mathura` , was in free blood-bath. In today's parlance, it would be as if someone killed everyone on Google campus. Hundreds of knowledge bearers left dead. Not even their wives were spared. Even children didn't get a plea for mercy.
- Saddened to the core, and unaware that the young widow was carrying,  `Vaśiṣṭha`  tried to commit suicide. He miraculously survived multiple attempts. Probably Gods wanted to extend his life to ensure unborn  `Parāśara`  got a chance at life. And more importantly, to save humanity from the loss of the 'knowledge' that was locked in  `Bramh-rishi's`  mind, **for there was no written text.**
- {{embed ((6385fdd5-5404-4842-8b34-db458eb0cd42))}}
- Survival was not a question here! Even animals ‘survived’ to this date! At stake was ‘our civilized world’ — driven by a network of knowledge, to unlock the mysteries of the universe. We are obviously not there yet, but we now have an immensely distributed and fault tolerant network to allow us make an attempt. At least a guarantee that our knowledge shall stay unharmed, as long as a part of earth survived. The technique to build such a distributed network - the underlying protocol that enables this 'network of knowledge', is what we refer to as Bramh in the tradition of Bramh-rishi Vaśiṣṭha. In essence Bramh is the bearer of knowledge.
  
  The entirety of or our ‘intelligent’ system is based on this knowledge graph. Each one of us has a tiny piece of knowledge decrypted in our minds, collectively we manifest a knowledge base that targets to understand all that is out there. Our perceivable universe is just one application of this knowledge network, the way entire ‘internet’ is just one application of the TCP/IP based networks2. You may see implementation of Bramh as a network of knowledge in many aspects of consciousness. For example Mycorrhizal3 network – a vast underground network of mycorrhizal fungal linkages that connect trees to one another.
- `Vaśiṣṭha`  was called  `Bramh-rishi`  because he owned the protocol that ran the knowledge graph, as if he inherited it from all-pervading  `Bramh` . Such a gory attack on the keeper of knowledge would obviously beg two questions — [[Why]] and [[When]] !
- Before the ‘written word’ became the mainstream mechanism to preserve literature, scriptures were passed on as  `Shruti`  — the spoken word. A choir of reciters chanted the hymns ( `Richas and Mantras` ) whole day long — from the early morning to the late evening. Certain  `mantras`  must be recited at a specific time of the day, and at a specific place. Some of them must be performed in front of the holy fire — rites. Teachers ( `Aacharyas` ), a level-above the reciting students, helped them get the pronunciation right, and to attune a  `Vaidik`  elocution style. And finally, the editors ( `Vyasas` ) were responsible for the content.  `Vyasas`  were there to make sure the spoken content stayed current, accurate, and in exact line with the messages of sages. Their stated objective was to keep the knowledge distributed over as many human minds as feasible — a block chain of knowledge, distributed over biological nodes.  `Vyasas`  ran carefully designed distribution and consensus protocols.
- And there was a good reason for intense focus on recital. Memories couldn't be stolen! Even today, we are advised to memorize our passwords! No one even imagined the scenario of such a nihilistic attack on  `Vaśiṣṭha`  congregation. No one had provisioned redundancy at the network level. The attack was on the ‘knowledge’ — on  `Kaam dhenu`  — the modern ways of civil life that provisioned everything for everyone. The  `mantra`  was  `Sarve Bhavantu Sukhinha`  — peace and prosperity to one and all. Not only for the kings or the rich or the strong — for everyone, including minor species. This knowledge created a ‘human fork’ in otherwise ‘planet of apes’. And the attackers were Apes ( `Rakshsas` )[5](http://localhost:3000/mathura.html#rakshsa), who didn't want to subscribe to the idea of a systemic change in human approach to civilization — a pragmatic view of governance for equity — from “survival of the fittest” to “well-being of all” !