- If we assume modern civilization a Tesla, then what  `Vaśiṣṭha`  had invented was ‘literally’ the wheels. the core knowledge — agriculture, mining, metallurgy, transport, to name a few — down to the very meaning of the five elements. Pieces of entire wisdom were sharded in the collective memory of the congregation. Only  `Vaśiṣṭha`  knew it all. The only ‘full back up’ of this budding network of knowledge was his mind. If it took us say five thousand years from the wheel to a car, it had probably taken fifty thousand, to evolve the ‘wheels’, for knowledge is never a straight line. It is a curve that curls up exponentially with time. Had  `Vaśiṣṭha`  died, the nascent civilization could have gone back into stone ages, and quite possibly perished into a dark future, for success against cruel forces of nature was a bleak chance — one in a trillion — may be even less. The trajectory of human rise is contingent upon the discoveries, and the inventors who built on each other's work. Think of it as a pyramid — upside down. At some point in the past, this inverse pyramid meets the primordial jungle — just a single hinge on which a vast civilization must balance.  `Bramh-rishi Vaśiṣṭha`  was that underpin.
  id:: 6385fdd5-5404-4842-8b34-db458eb0cd42
- The notion of invention at that time was different. Most religious accounts say that  `Vaśiṣṭha`  lived for more than a thousand years. It seems that  `Vaśiṣṭha`  was a family title rather than being an individual. A family that was responsible for remembering all that was ever invented. The knowledge was passed on generation by generation — from parents to offspring. Each generation dedicated to a sole purpose of synthesizing and cumulating the knowledge of all the basic discoveries of their time. They imparted parts of this knowledge to the followers based on their capabilities. Over a long period of many generations, the group of followers increased and turned into a community. Most of the followers spread geographically and many co-located in the  `Ashrama` .