- As regards to ‘when’, unfortunately, we don't have a date or a year. The broad consensus among historians is around five to seven thousand years before Christ. It isn't hard to believe there was no time-keeping in those days. Probably, in that world, before the written word, when only way to sustain knowledge was to memorize it, last thing anyone cared was the ‘metadata’ — such as date, or time. Even the names of the primal inventors who kick started the civilization are unknown. No one knows who solved the hard problems of those early days — how to start a fire? — how to preserve the seeds? — how to use rivers for transport? — how to add horsepower to a loaded cart? These solutions evolved over thousands of years and were passed on from one generation to the next through the word of mouth. The sense of time was probably lost in the slow pace of iterative innovations of that primordial society. Thankfully,   [[Vaśiṣṭha]]  family preserved these key discoveries through recital. And credit for these discoveries was passed on through [[deities]]
- The superfluous information (metadata) was purged as soon as possible. Simply because, without the facility to scribe , the human memory offered limited storage space . The focus was on keeping the knowledge fresh instead of maintaining the version history, for this knowledge was our distinction from the rest of the species. This knowledge must be kept as compressed as possible to render it real-time. Things that we take for granted today, only few human minds could handle at that time. Only that knowledge carried forward that was put to use every day such as survival skills, or was (forcefully) recited on daily basis — to synthesize and to keep the knowledge current. Thus, no one knows the exact date but we know for sure that the piece of eternal code rests archived in our foundations. And the fact we succeeded to tame the forces of nature, and that we built increasingly complex systems of money, security, computing, and health etc; is a testament that our core kernel is flawless — as if it was a gift of [[deities]] .