- Good morning Ashutosh
- DONE  AirBNB cancellation and rebooking for the Wedding Anniversary.
- TODO  Post the Affidevit to Bhai via UPS
	- Updated Bhai that UPS will take 108 dollars. Now checking with USPS
	- DONE Check price with USPS
- DONE Pick up tiles , sand bag and bathroom seal from Home Depot
- TODO check out Propane cylinder  at home depot.
- DONE  get sealant from Home Depot
- What does it mean to have [[spirituality in technology]]? Is there a better word.
- Most subtle tech inventions. Are they what I mean from [[spirituality in technology]].
	- [[Mark down]] - The idea that html can be written easily by humans.
	- Vi style key mapping - The idea that you can use keyboard to move around in your text. You don't really need any other device. #vim
	- [[git]]  - the knowledge is in the commits. In the version history.
	- [[Logseq]] basically is quite the opposite of all that we learnt in terms of writing - The idea that you should not worry about the folders , structure new pages ... none of the traditional stuff.
	- [[nix]] package manager  - The idea that a folder may have a unique hash for the content it carries. Also means no one should be able to change the contents of the folder. What good is such a folder than? Turns out this is what we need to store the applications delivered to the computer. Which also means every time you make a change to the application, it is a new version - it must be stored separately in a new folder.
	- iPod - People love music. Steve saw this when he saw the rise of Napster. He anyway, himself loved the music.  That meant everyone should be able to carry all their music with them. Device needed an application to upload music from PC. That led to iTunes. When this got popular, Steve started selling legit songs that could be purchased from Apple. Business grows like a Tress.
	- track pad
- Writing is the reflection of our brains. Before we start writing things for the public consumption , we need to harvest our thoughts . That is where [[Logseq]] fits in. It is a way to organize your research, todos, fleeting thoughts into a graph that you can use anytime you want to expand on a certain topic. May be years later.
- Don't think [[Logseq]] of brain harvesting is something that you should start when or if at all you wanna become a writer. In fact the chances of your becoming a good writer are dependent on how good you are at harvesting your own brain.
- [[Logseq]] converts the art of writing from a [[desire]] to a [[Karma]].
- If you are not happy yourself why would people want to emulate you?  If you are not happy, you will want to emulate others. Everyone wants to be happier.
	- One way of saying this is "Try to feel Happy" - that is what we call Spirituality, or Bhakti or even Love.
	- The other way is to go grab that happiness - what we call materialism, consumption based society.
	- Both of them are asking you to sacrifice your time for something tangible. They are promising something in the future.  They are asking you to live a dingy life for something supernaturally great in the future.
	- They are selling you happiness - A thing that you already have.
	- Question is how do we find that thing ? Why?
	- Because that thing is always happy , that thing is your quest.  That is what we call `Atma`
	- `Karm Yoga ` is way to start living that thing. That click is an event. A switch. When you become one with your `Karma`. Means you are attached to your actions. You find pleasure in working.
- [[Logseq]] takes away the greed from the act of capturing an idea. You will create folders or document or open an existing document to write that idea. This is certain amount of work. You will do this work only if you have a desire. 
  
  So when I used to write something, I kinda felt that I am being greedy. I want to collect idea the ay people collect money.
- Graph is taking over the writing.
- In 2023, Block , the company launched a new product. It was called [[blocks-chain]]. The references to the company [[Block]] and its founder [[Jack Dorsey]] are totally fictional. I have no connection with the company or the founder - whatsoever. However I do think, this could be a good future strategy of any company that wants to handle digital commerce  of the future. May be [[meta]] would get it first. Or may be [[epic games]] would launch this future of [[digital commerce]].  In fact the better way would be if they all come together.  A key feature in this whole game was [[After Pay]] because artists should be able to buy services in four equal installments.
	- The idea was super simple -  to put the entire creative economy on a bock-chain based system supported by Lightening bit coin.
	- The phase 1 was the [[writers economy]] - Based on [[Logseq]].
		- Writers world was built in Logseq. Writers could put the a block on the block-chain by choosing a block from their dedicated [[Mac]] or [[Windows]] app. They had three choices - self edit , get an editor, or sell.
		- Blocks requested for self editing will come back to your logseq for editing. When you publish such blocks for sale you will need to pay a gas fee in lightening BTCs.
		- If you choose to get editor,  you will choose from a market place. The smart contract will pay directly to the editor. Once the writer accepts the work. The block will be added to the chain without any fee because the work has already been edited. The payout is in terms of improvement in commerce.
		- Any thing added to the chain , whether it is self edited and supported with a gas fee or edited by someone else, all the blocks will get into a sell market place. Kinda NFTs. A writer could mint max 100 NFTs.
		- Another type of smart contract was royalty based. Writer gets 50 % , Editor gets 30 % , miner gets 15 % , Block gets 5 %.
		- Every time an NFT is sold ,  40 % of the profit goes back to above in the same proportion.
		- The clocks were bought mostly by the media industry - people making content for you tube, netflix etc or even making motion pics. But the biggest buyers would be the game industry or metaverse experience builders.
		- Anyone could read the content free of charge on the market place. In fact there was a tiny incentive for writing a comment or formally reviewing the content.
		- Writers or resellers could assign a % of their sales revenue for the reviewers and commenters. In a way general readers were incentivized for reading.
		- The settlement for reviewers and commenters was monthly basis. After the fact. Writer could use a Borrow feature to pay commenters upfront. That she must payback in four equal installments.
		- Comments could be upvoted or downvoted. Each upvote gets an amount fixed by the writer. Each downvote gets the same deduction. In a way writers define the minimum amount you must hold in your wallet in order for you to comment on a block. Comments voting system was something like [[Quora]]
		- The distribution of readers incentive  was to be prorated based on the ranking of the comments. More upvotes , more incentive and more visibility since the top comments funnel to the top.
		- Readers market place was [[Faceboo]] , [[Instagram]] and [[Twitter]] to start. Next addition was [[Medium]] and [[Linkedin]].  And finally with the sdk, any platform that supported the lightening network wallets could add the content to their platform.
		- Writers or resellers could choose the [[social media platform]] they want to publish their block. Choice was normally governed by the nature of the content. A long text would probably go to medium. A fleeting thought would probably go to Twitter.
	- The second phase was [[Developers Economy]]
		- Code blocks were written vscode and were published for sale at Github as a repo . Could be pulled into VSCode as the repo. A full application in the shape of nix package could also be sold on [[github]].  The meaning of sold is if you fork it for using in your own application. Thats where the transaction kicksin. The code was always free to read or to test. Use of application was always free . In fact the usage was incentivized just like the readers of content. Every comment or issue was incentivized. Users are actually treated as a partner of the developer. Buyers are the ones who want to use the code or entire application into something like a new application.
	- Third phase was audio economy - Based on [[Tidal]
	- And the last phase was immersive economy . They skipped the video because they thought larger share of video experience wold move to meta-verse by 2029.  - Based on " [[Unreal Engine]] " .
	- Each phase was two years long.
	- Now you understand why [[Jack Dorsey]] chose "Block" as the name of his company.
	- The ultimate goal was to bring entire commerce of [[Square]] on to this platform.
	- Jack already had Tidal and Square. Getting Log would not be that hard. The main issue was getting epic with him. [[Tim Sweeny]] is a legend himself.
- [[creativeSellersLicense]] #blocks-chain
	- Creative commons is a great license but it has some limitations. First, most of the work on CC comes from them who don't care for money. They either don't need to care for their bills or they don't have many bills - means they ate `Yogies`. But unfortunately most of the world is not. Second, since the body of work from such people is limited, viewers go to the content sources that don't care about the licenses at all. How many copy right infringements are there on Youtube! We can't even fathom to count. The solution is obviously not in asking people to just forget about the value of their creative work. If someone wants to share their work under free and creative labels, great but what about those who genuinely want to price their work !
	  id:: 633ce0ee-b88e-4988-a446-23ed1edef086
	- Other reason is there is no other way for the creatives. Even if I want to sell a block of my work - a piece of text or a poem or a digital art  - What is the way.  Enter the NFTs but NFTs are kinda kinky.
	  id:: 633ce0ee-2f8e-4a6d-8a86-a8ba57257043
	- A great misconception is the buyers of your digital work are your readers. That may be true for great writers or poets  or artists. But most of the work that you produce is used by people who want to use your work for a bigger piece of art. For example someone might want to convert your poem into a song. Someone might want to convert your story into a marvel short.
	- So in this context , your readers are basically your co-creators , just like editors , professional reviewers and publishers etc. The readers make your work to bubble to the top by adding likes and comments. More reaction you get from your readers , more is your work likely to be picked up by your customers.
	- So you need to give a part of your revenue to your readers. Because they are spending time in reading , sharing and championing your work. Where is such a platform ?
	- We need to start with a simple  Creative sellers licence.