- Exploring [[LogSeq]] #desires
	- The vim style keybindings seems to be working well. #vim
	- There is a little bit getting used to with vim.
	- The Mac app seems pretty good.
	- DONE Test it out on [[Linux]]
	- Figure out how to insert Todo in front of any block
	- Can I bring in my mdbook folder into logseq?
	- How do I publish my work?
	- What is the underlying database?
	- ## How did I get here #quest
	  heading:: 2
	  Saw  a random article that linked to a tweet of Brian Armstrong that they are now ranking the politicians based on their support for the #Crypto
	  Clicked in the link to the Twitter. The table embedded in the tweet took me to an App. Later I figured out it was #Notion. It was a pretty cool app  to write. Very impressed.  Thought of giving it a shot. Downloaded the Mac App. 
	  Later that night , while watching the TV,  #Adi was working on his Mac. I asked which app it was. He said #Notion . And he said it was the best editing app he ever used and he does all his  work in #Notion
	  Got even more impressed with #Notion . But the only problem was it didn't support the #vim style keybindings. 
	  Googled if Notion supported the vim style that led me to a Reddit post. They said Notion doesn't support the vim keybindings but if that is a must have than try out #Obsedian or LogSeq
	  Next day - that is today.  I researched LogSeq. And was totally blown away with storing content in a Graph database.
- Arjun Uvaach #desires
	- TODO Fix second chapter of Prologue
	- TODO Read third chapter
- Plan wedding anniversary #desires
	- DONE Cancel the AirBnB since the host is asking for another hundred bucks as dog fee
	  :LOGBOOK:
	  CLOCK: [2022-10-02 Sun 11:07:37]
	  :END:
	- DONE Book new AirBnB
- TODO Send the Nandi Chacha Affidavit
  :LOGBOOK:
  CLOCK: [2022-10-02 Sun 11:07:27]--[2022-10-02 Sun 11:09:22] =>  00:01:55
  :END:
- TODO Learn Bitcoin protocol #btc
- ##  Best tutorial on bit coin
  link:: https://nakamoto.com/gnutella/
  producer:: [[Haseeb Qureshi]]
  type:: [[article]]
  tags:: [[btc]]
  heading:: 2
  id:: 633cdad7-948a-42d9-9809-eb332eb31fd7
  This is one of  the best article I have seen so far on the bitcoin network fundamenals.
- ## Start your journey into logSeq
  link:: https://youtu.be/asEesjv0kTs
  producer:: Dario Da Silva
  tags:: [[LogSeq]]
  type:: [[video]]
  heading:: 2
  Check out the clip at this timestamp /embed https://youtu.be/asEesjv0kTs
- Morning walk with dogs #Karma
- Made space for the Elovera Pot #Karma
- Started making deck for the trash cans #desires
- Washed the trash area. Now that trash cans are moved to the deck, I could use this space for the stretching. So put the mats there #desires
- Evening walk with dogs #Karma
- Made sandwich for lunch and salad for dinner. #Karma