- You need to look good when you are representing someone. You can be yourself when you are representing you. #myQuotes
- It is no secret that the best neural networks are the ones in our mind. We have 300x parameters in single human brain than the toys that [[Google]] is making - they call it [[deepMind]] but 'Deep Mind' is way less deeper than a single human mind. The obvious thing that even [[Elon]] missed is that it is the intelligence in human brains that is making all the things - be it self driving cars or the space faring rockets. While they are spending billions of dollars in making the AI based robots, there are seven billions simply roaming around on the face of earth. And this is assuming only humans have good quality harnessable nueral networks though the fact is even animals have much better neural engines that the best made on silicon todate. #mindLang
  
  The silicone based networks just fail to provide so many connections so efficiently because, these connections 'grow' based on the environment. The environment is NOT just a training model, it is where survival instincts build the neurons and connect them to solve the problems. I mean that is what corporations harness all the time. They recruit people and put them in specific situations. Those who survive the difficult situations, build the solutions. Even combat forces do the same. Generals send the soldiers into harmsways. There, soldiers develop the general intelligence networks in their brains - first to survive and than to conquer.
  
  Office was another such environment. People come together in one location to solve connected problems. And they developed networks that went beyond a singular mind. They say one plus one is not two - it is eleven. Why? - because when you add neural networks, the problem solving capacity is not twice, it is an order or magnitude more. 
  
  Now that we are working at homes (or not working at all), how do we connect the minds. The human minds observe problem space from the environment they are in. They create solutions for the problems they face. [[mindLang]] is a model , a solution or a framework to connect human brains efficiently on a common problem without them having to physically co-locate. Because now we can bring the best of the talents together in [[mindLand]] - a metaverse runtime environment for [[mindLang]]
- It became a common knowledge that humans and (every other species) are self preserving AI units - because we use (difficult) environment for designing our neural engine and then we use the same engine to conquer the problem space. Not only that, we destroy ourselves when the problem is conquered because the cost of rewiring the brains is lot more than creating a fresh human brain. In absence of this self evolving, self sustaining and self destroying aspect - artificial intelligence is just a toy. And the survival was not on how many neurons we may build. It was on the efficiency. Each organism is made for exact existing situation and it presishes when the problem is resolved. Artificial AIs can not sustain a day out in the wild. They may do great things in the lab and environments supported by humans and helped humans augment but they fail miserably when sent alone to far flung planets in search of unknown. On the other hand tiny bacteria survive even in the harshest places say Mars. #mindLang
- TODO what is the difference between [[concreteCracksFiller]] and [[concreteJoitSealant]] .
- Why #btc might become global reserve currency sooner than I might think. Somewhat like #onlineRetail did to traditional one.
	- [[geoPolitical]] situation has split the world in two major camps. On one side we have the camp led by China and Russia that is mostly manufacturing world. I don't want to divide the world into developing and developed world because by definition this criterion is derogatory.  On the other side we have a world which is led by consumption. This consumptive world also has the designers who are great in designing the products for more consumption.
		- The manufacturing world comprises developed nations such as China , Russia and Middle East that manufacture using the cheap resources they have. For example China harnesses the cheap labor whereas Russia and middle East harness the cheap resources of carbon based energy - oil.
		- The Consumption oriented world are the developed nations that consume bulk of the manufactured goods from inland or by imports.  It takes proximity to  understand what consumers need. Thus most of the top software and hardware design companies are in this world - be it Google or Apple or Meta. When I say consumption , it is not consumption of physical goods only. It is consumption of information goods too - be it apps, games or media.
		- Generally there was an equilibrium when consumption led countries enjoyed good relations with the manufacturers. Manufacturers saw the opportunity to tap into huge demand and consumers saw an opportunity into huge cheap labor , energy and commodities.  It was an opportunity for the manufacturers get get out of poverty while consumers could enjoy ever cheaper goods and services. Basically no inflation as the cost were falling. What ever inflation was there , was on account of fiscal and monetary blunders.
		- The general trend  for the manufacturers to buy into bonds and treasuries issued by the consumers because they saw these currencies safe heavens. They didn't have full understanding of the economic systems and more importantly they lacked confidence. In other words they were turning into developed countries from the [[underdeveloped]] world.
		- Two things happened in parallel in last one decade.
			- First the consumers developed automation and alternative energy. Alternative energy was somewhat justifiable because of climate crisis. But how would you justify automation. It meant a clear blow to the manufacturers. Earlier only middle East and Russia were scared that there cash cow (oil) is going to get obsolete soon, with automation, even China felt the fear that its manufacturing dream was short lived.
			- The manufacturers, having moved into a developed economy, saw their own demand grow. They started producing designers to tap into their own markets. This means they need to invest in their own nations rather than simply saving the money in consumer treasuries.
			- The problem is , USD will crash if China and Russia and Middle East start pulling their money out.  The value of their money is locked into strength of USD.
			- Not only with drawls, if the US Fed print excessive amounts of dollars , the value of their holdings go down. A holder of dollar wants dollar to be stronger.
			- At the same time, they need an alternative where they may hold their money.  A gradual pull out from USD and a gradual ramp up into an alternative global currency where the value of their deposits increase over time rather than depreciating.
			- Enters #btc and stranger things started happening.