- The first feels of using [[Logseq]] on [[Linux]] is lot better.
	- Feels much more responsive even on my old desktop. Certainly lot faster than the [[VSCode]].
- Morning , while waking up , I was thinking how graphical user interface  has again taken over me. I wasted almost full day in figuring out logSeq. Why ?  Do I need to go back to text mode again. It seemed right because amount of time I am spending on Crypto, Stocks, Metaverse tech  and just random shit is phenomenal. So I decided to go back into my cave again!
  When I was making coffee, another window opened up. May be I need to give logseq one more chance. The tool seems incredible. So I decided to take the with me in my garage. 
  But I started with reading my book on Kindle. Didn't want to start the GUI yet. 
  Suddenly this thought came. They are just one thing. There is no conflict. #quest
- With increase in interest rates government is asking us to reduce consumption. They are incentivize to keep your money in Dollars. Better keep it in BTC because all the assets are going to reduce in value. Because supply and inventories are going to increase #btc
- The old age is hell. Our energy reduces and desires become rooted. We burn in our desires. We want to be something. We want money to multiply man fold. #desires
- TODO Clean the garage
- There are only two things - Actions that you need to do #Karma and the actions that you want to do #desires. There is nothing else because no one can sit idle even for a minute. So the highest level in #LogSeq is to split every thing in to two broad categories.  The desires and the Karma.
	- The way you get to your desires is to complete your Karma first. 
	  Now, Karma is something you can't do away. You got to do it.
	- Desires however are something you can choose to ignore.
	- If you choose to ignore the desires, that time you can use to stay happy and lost in yourself.
	- The key challenge is the moment you will control your desires, other desires will crop up.
	- Another challenge is to figure out if you can convert a desire into Karma. This is not easy cuz removing the desires from an action created by desires is very difficult.
- TODO check out the vim bindings for the #LogSeq and get deeper into the keyboard shortcuts.
- Thinking of using [[Logseq]] as the content manager for Shutri.com #Workflow
	- DONE Need to figure out how it will work with [[git]] and [[github]]
	- DONE Figure out how it will play with [[mdbook]]
	- The goal is to have some of the pages created by the Logseq  be published through [[mdbook]] to ghpages
	- DONE Review the folder structure and test out how the SUMMARY.md would look like.
	- DONE  open the graph on another device (Mac) from the git repo after syncing it with github.
- Wondering if I could bring [[Obsedian]] CSS to mdbook! Feels like a [[longshot]]
- Spoke with Adi about Logseq . Gave him an elevator pitch.